attrib +h +s secret.txt 
Rename secret.exe to secret.txt 
 Rename photo.jpg to photo.txt.exe

:: Create files 
echo echo Hello > secret.bat 
echo dummy data > photo.jpg 
:: Rename files to disguise 
ren secret.bat secret.txt 
ren photo.jpg photo.txt.exe



What is a Hidden File?
● A file marked with special attributes so it’s not shown by default in File
Explorer.
● Helps keep files out of casual view.
● Windows uses two main attributes: Hidden & System.
Hide a File Using Command Prompt
attrib +h +s secret.txt
+h adds Hidden attribute
+s adds System attribute

Show Hidden Files
● Open File Explorer → View → Options → View tab
● Select Show hidden files, folders, and drives
● Uncheck Hide protected operating system files

Alternate Data Streams (ADS)
● NTFS feature to hide data inside files.
● Example:
notepad normal.txt:hidden.txt

“Stealthy” = Hard to detect without knowing exactly what to look for.
These methods exploit default system behaviors and settings to keep files hidden
from everyday view and casual inspection.

Rename the File to Disguise Its Type
● Change the file extension to something else.
● Examples:
○ Rename secret.exe to secret.txt

○ Rename photo.jpg to photo.txt.exe

If extensions are hidden, users will see:
● secret.txt instead of secret.exe

● photo.txt instead of photo.txt.exe

This can trick users into thinking a file is harmless when it’s actually
executable or something else.

Create a File With Double Extensions (Classic Trick)
● Rename a file to have two extensions, like:
report.pdf.exe
If extensions are hidden, this looks like report.pdf — users might think it’s a PDF but it’s
actually an executable.

Hiding Files Using File Extension Tricks
What Are File Extensions?
● File extensions tell Windows what type of file it is.

● Example: .txt for text files, .exe for executables.
Default Behavior of Windows Explorer
● By default, Windows hides known file extensions.
● This can make files look different than they really are.
● Open File Explorer.
● Go to the View tab.
● Check/uncheck File name extensions.

:: Create files
echo echo Hello > secret.bat
echo dummy data > photo.jpg

:: Rename files to disguise
ren secret.bat secret.txt
ren photo.jpg photo.txt.exe